---
title: "Well, it's a start"
last_modified_at:
author: pena
---

MIDI tracks from the ninth grade.  

I started music as a hobby in the 8th grade when I bought my first kantele to play. I had been interested in Finnish folk music and folk metal through the internet and wanted a kantele of my own. This lead to having to learn the basics of music. I soon spent large amounts of time on the internet reading through wikipedia pages on basic music theory.  

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/389075250&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

I'm the kind of person to get much too obsessed about a single topic at a time and then possibly completely forget about it later on. I soon bought a full-size Casio keyboard to practise my music and, wanting to jack it up to my computer, ended up learning about MIDI.  

The rest of my time was largely spent playing video games and reading. Especially video game and fantasy music were therefore big on my interests list, which eventually lead to my creating these tracks. They helped me up my grade a little in a music course I was taking, since I couldn't play guitar, sing, or be in any way arsed to actually participate during the lessons...  

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/421443066&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true"></iframe>

If I remember correctly, I used a totally-not-warez Guitar Pro software or the like to compose the MIDI for them, and then used a SoundFont player to render them with some soundfonts and effects. Looking back as an adult, I'm quite impressed with how little social life I must have had back then considering the amount of work and detail I managed to put into these.  

