---
title: "How are the real numbers constructed from the rationals?"
last_modified_at:
author: author
---

I wanted to start of this section with the first written work approaching "real" mathematics that I ever wrote. Here is my Extended Essay regarding the construction of the real number system from the rational numbers using the method of Cauchy completion. Written 2013.


I am a former IB student. The International Baccalaureate is a two-year upper secondary education program, which in Finland is also preceded by one year of so-called pre-IB, to make it fit more neatly with the ordinary three-year lukio-system in Finland. The main difference between the two is the language of education and that less subjects are studied by the students, but more in depth, usually partly at university level. By that time, I had already decided to study mathematics at university, so mathematics was one of my Higher Level subjects, and I chose also to do my Extended Essay on it. The Extended Essay is an approximately 4000-word (this requirement is a bit more lenient in mathematics) written work, that is supposed to demostrate a capability for proper scientific writing within a subject and of a certain level of self-reliance and specialization by the student.


Topology was an area of mathematics that was interesting to me then, and I was already superficially reading some university level texts on metric spaces and general topology by then. Eventually I ended up on the somewhat topological (as in it deals with metric space theory) subject of using Cauchy completions to construct the real numbers, as opposed to the Dedekind cut -method often taught in connection with the basics of mathematical analysis.


This construction is, of course, interesting, since the natural numbers are easily constructed from formal logical axioms. From the natural numbers, the construction of all integers, and then also of the rational numbers is reasonably straightforward. Even the Pythagoreans had a notion of rational numbers, but struggled with irrational numbers. Finding a rigorous construction of the real numbers, then, is a major milestone in the foundations of mathematics.


[Here is my result. I received a good, but not stellar, grade for it.](https://gingerdeer.github.io/images/EE.pdf)


<object id="extendedessay" data="/images/EE.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="100%" height="750rem;">
<p>This browser does not support PDFs. Please download the PDF to view it: 
<a href="/images/EE.pdf">Download PDF</a>.</p>
</object>